Okay. Now, we're ready for the next step,
which is we're going to get into linting,
not just the Python code,
but also linting Docker containers themselves
and also looking at the Dockerfile format
so that it's ready to actually be more fully configured.
Finally, we're going to set up CircleCI
which is a SaaS-based build system
to test everything all in one fell swoop.
Let's look at a more sophisticated Makefile
and see what that can look like.
So again, I have the same virtual environment set up.
I can go through here and do an install.
Then there's a new interesting twist here,
which is there's this config file for CircleCI,
which is a SaaS-based build system.
What that does is it goes through and it validates that my project,
not only works locally and runs in local Docker container,
but also works remotely as well.
What's interesting is that with CircleCI,
you can actually tap into this whole virtual environments
and also the container system by running it locally
and seeing what it'll look like when it runs in their SaaS build environment.
You can see that it's done via "circleci local execute".
Finally, there's a lint directive here that has one more step from the previous example,
and that's using something called hadolint.
Hadolint is a tool that will go through and lint your Dockerfile.
So let's go ahead and look at what
that Dockerfile and lint process is going to look like.
So I'm going to go into that directory here.
Let's go into "demos" and let's look at this project here.
Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead
and look at what a Dockerfile looks like in the context of linting it.
You can see here, this is just a really basic Dockerfile.
So what I could do is I could say hadolint Dockerfile,
and it'll go through.
If it doesn't complain about anything,
then we know the Dockerfile is fine.
If I go through and I mess something up intentionally
and I say, "This is bad,"
and again, put some weird step here.
Let's go through and run it again.
You can see here that it has warned me that there's a problem right on line 3.
So if I go back here again,
I can go and I can delete this from the Dockerfile.
So it also has that same style that a regular pylint has,
that allows me to actually verify that things are working properly.
Another thing that we can check out is this local CircleCI config.
So if we go through here and I do an ls-la,
you can see that it's a hidden directory.
So I'm going to go into this CircleCI directory.
Now, I'm going to look at this config file,
and let's walk through what it does.
So what it does is it starts off with declaring a job.
So this is a job that will run in their SaaS build environment.
We can actually use the exact same base Docker image
that we're using in our project.
So what's great about this is I can test Docker locally,
and we'll get into that in a second,
and I also can test it in their SaaS environment.
So the first thing that I'm going to do once I've used this image
is I'm going to go through,
and I'm going to download and install the dependencies.
So that's done right here.
I again make a virtual environment just like we did earlier,
but in this case, I'm going to make it in their SaaS build environment,
I'm going to activate it,
and then I'm going to run this "make install".
The next step is, we would go through here
and do a wget to download the hadolint binary
and use that to actually be the linting tool for our Dockerfile.
Next, I go ahead and I run this command "make lint"
and that goes through and it runs those two commands that we had showed earlier,
which is it does a lint for the Dockerfile
and also does a lint for our Python code.
So really, this is just an extra step of validation
that is going to happen every single time a change is made to our environment.
So let's go ahead and see how that would work.
If I say here,
I say make command and I do make space tab,
you'll see that there's a run-circleci-local.
So let's go ahead and run that command.
What this is going to do is actually going to simulate
exactly what it's going to do in the remote CircleCI environment,
because it has the same Docker container.
Great. So that looks like it's working.
It's installing the packages.
Once it's done installing the packages,
then it's going to go through and do the lint operation.
There we go.
So now it's downloading the hadolint binary
and it's going to install it inside of its local environment.
Once that's done, now we can go through
and run the hadolint, which lints the Dockerfile
and also run the pylint, which lints our Python code.
Great. Everything works locally.
The final step here to test this whole dockerized SaaS build environment
is to go look at CircleCI itself.
So let's go ahead and look at how that looks.
So here's what a CircleCI environment looks like every time a job is successfully run.
It does the exact same sequence of steps as what happened locally in the terminal.
So step 1 is you set up an environment.
So it goes through and it gets that Docker container we told it about.
Step 2 is it checks out the source code,
goes through and does all the commands that we've told it.
Finally, it goes through and installs those dependencies.
Again, you can see that it's actually putting hadolint in there.
Then finally, the last step is it's going to go through
and run that command that we told it about,
which is that run lint command.
So you can see here its sources the virtual environment and it runs make lint.
So what's so powerful about this automated setup is
that exactly what I did in my terminal locally,
the build servers doing.
That means that, let's say
a second or third or fourth developer that works on that project,
they can look at CircleCI and they can see
that they know what the working status of the system,
not just at the source code level which in itself is pretty powerful,
but also at the application level.
So the exact Docker container has been validated
along with the source code at the same time.
So this is just another level of professionalism and automation
that can occur in a software engineering project